So, guys, going forward now, let us first understand that what our addressable memory about addressable
memory is a memory in which every byte has an address, right.
Such a memory is called byte addressable memory.
So let us take an example.
Suppose this diagram represents your physical memory, right?
So you can see that each of this physical memory comprises of four bytes that despite zero by one,
by two and by three, right.
Now, you've got physical memory is about addressable memory, that is every byte has an address.
So if the starting address of the byte zero of the physical memory is zero, then the address of the
next byte will be one address of the next byte will be two and so on.
Right.
So every byte of the physical memory is has an address and therefore physical memory is called byte
addressable memory.
In fact, we are virtual memory is also quite addressable memory.
So every byte has an address and you can see that the addresses are actually in continuous order.
Right.
That is, every consecutive bytes will have consecutive addresses and so on.
So suppose if you have a point at which point to some memory location, let's say that pizza ad is a
pointer and this pointer points to this address.
Right.
Let's say that this address represents sixty five.
Now, if you increment this pointer value, it means that this pointer will now start pointing to the
next byte in the physical memory.
So this pointer will start point to the byte number six to six in the physical memory.
So byte is the lowest unit of memory that can be accessed.
Right.
So that is why we need to perform boolean operations in order to manipulate memory at a better level.
So note that in your C program or in any programming language, you do not have a data type which represents
a bit.
Right.
There is no data type Colbert in any programming language, so the shortest data type that is available
is byte in C or any other programming language, right.
In fact, in C, we have a shortened data type called car.
So it means that using primitive data types of a programming language, the smallest unit of memory
that you can access is a bite.
And whenever there is a scenario that you need to access or manipulate a particular bit present somewhere
in your physical or virtual memory, then you need to apply boolean operations such as and or not,
right.
So it is for this reason, because your memory is Pythagoras's memory, there are no data types Colbert
in the programming language and hence you cannot access memory at that level.
So the conclusion is that our physical and virtual memory are by traversable memory and every byte has
an address.
So when we say that suppose this physical memory is for Jimmy Incise, let's say your computer has a
physical memory ram which has a size of four GUI now convert this four GB into bytes.
You will get to restore the power to 32 bytes.
Now, every byte has an address.
It means that your chip has to raise to the power 32 memory locations or memory addresses.
Now the question is that what will be the address of the last bite of your physical memory?
The address of the last bite of the physical memory will be to restore the power 30 to minus one.
Right.
So if you have a fauji behram that the address of the last bite of this 40 Behram will be to restore
the power it to minus one.
And remember, addresses are nothing, but these are just numerical indexes, which represents a particular
location of a bite.
In a memory.